Hello everyone.
I'm excited to share some ideas
around optimizing your subscription for success
using the App Store's features
to help you improve your subscriber acquisition.
I'm Meghana,
and I'm part of the App Store Scaled Engagement Team.
Today's session begins
with an overview of acquisition offers
and a recap of the tools the App Store has available
to stand them up.
I'll then spend some time walking
through different acquisition strategies to consider
that utilize these features.
I'll wrap up by discussing engineering considerations.
Okay, let's get started.
The App Store is the world's safest
and most trusted app marketplace
serving over 650 million visitors each week
across more than 175 storefronts.
Customers trust that apps and subscriptions on the platform
are held to high standards
for privacy, security, and content,
and we now have more than 1 billion
active paid subscriptions across Apple services.
Today, I'll share some sample strategies
that can help you attract customers
to your subscription service.
As a reminder,
let's review the two subscription offer features
that can be used for acquisition.
Introductory offers is the feature
that allows you to set a standard introductory price
for new subscribers, shown here as one week free
before the subscription auto renews
into the standard paid price.
Offer codes takes the functionality
of introductory offers a step further
allowing more flexibility
for how you merchandise your offers
both inside and outside of your app,
shown here, the custom code NEWYEAR unlocks
a special offer inside the app,
and in fact, 60% of active paid subscriptions
on the platform first began with an intro offer,
so these can be quite powerful
but how do you know what to offer new customers?
There are three different discount types
that you can choose from:
free trial, which gives customers free access
to your subscription for an allotted period of time
before they're billed,
pay upfront, which gives customers
a one-time discounted purchase for a period
before renewing at the regular rate,
and pay as you go, which gives customers multiple renewals
at a discounted price before renewing at the regular rate.
Keep in mind that offers should always be utilized
as part of a great customer experience.
Apps should never attempt to trick users
into purchasing a subscription under false pretenses,
cheat users with irrationally high prices,
or engage in other scammy behavior.
Apps must also provide ongoing value to customers
in order to offer auto-renewing subscriptions.
Looking at a breakdown of the discount types
redeemed by currently paying subscribers
in all territories outside of Greater China,
we see that nearly all of them began with a free trial.
But when we look at a global view,
you can see that nearly a quarter of active subscriptions
began with a paid offer,
either pay upfront or pay as you go.
In addition to their popularity
in markets like Greater China,
where free trials are uncommon,
paid offers can also be useful
for apps with strong brand recognition
or specific content licensing considerations.
Free trials are popular because they allow customers
to sample a subscription service at no cost
and are therefore a great tool
for demonstrating the value of your service.
Let's review some trends that we observe
when looking at how developers are using free trials today.
The length of free trial offered
is one of the areas where we see some differences.
We find that at a platform level,
the popularity of trial lengths that developers use
varies based on their apps category.
For example, entertainment, social, music, and book apps
tend to over-index on one-month free trials.
Apps in the health and fitness, productivity, education,
and weather tend to use week-long trials more heavily
and three-day trials are most popular
amongst photo and video, games, utilities and business apps.
We also observed some trends
across the popularity of trial lengths that developers use
based on the region they're offered in.
Monthly trials are most commonly offered
in the US, Canada, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand,
whereas Greater China, Japan, and LATAM
all over-index in providing seven-day trials,
and three-day trials are most popular
in Southeast Asia and Pan EMIEA.
Keep in mind that this data is directional
and you should always test and evaluate
what makes most sense for your specific app and service.
With some of the basics
of acquisition offers under our belt,
let's dive a little bit deeper
and explore how offer tools can be used
to support some sample strategies.
To approach this, we've organized these strategies
by onboarding and marketing,
two areas that you should be thinking about
when developing your subscription.
For each of these, we'll provide some strategies to consider
and show you how to use the App Store's offer features
to create them.
So let's begin by discussing some ways
that you can optimize your app's onboarding
to help you introduce your subscription to new users.
One of the benefits of using an introductory offer
is that it gives customers an accessible way
to sample content before becoming paid subscribers.
When customers are in this trial period
it's helpful to keep them engaged
and exploring of the value of your service.
In-app messaging and push notifications
are tools that can help you reach these new customers
during their intro offer period.
Remember that customers must opt in
to receiving push notifications from your app.
Let's take a look at an example.
Here you can see how the hypothetical app Ocean Journal
offers to remind customers when their trial is ending
to encourage them to take advantage
of their remaining days of service.
You can take this a step further
by providing a timeline to customers before they subscribe
to highlight key days to keep in mind
throughout their free trial.
This allows them to know exactly when they'll be charged.
When used alongside notifications,
timeline or countdown messaging
can help customers comfortably explore your service
and understand its value proposition
so they can make an informed decision
about becoming a paying subscriber
at the end of the free trial.
Users who download your app
have different interests and ambitions.
When onboarding new users
you may want to learn a little bit about them
so that you can tailor your content
and messaging to their needs,
but do keep this short and sweet.
A good rule of thumb is to provide onboarding
that helps people enjoy your app, not just set it up.
You might also consider using this information
to surface and distribute offer codes for acquisition offers
tailored directly to a customer's motivations.
Here's an example of how personalized offer messaging
might look with Ocean Journal.
Here, the app has included
a question in their onboarding flow
that helps them understand their customer's interests.
This will help them better customize their app's experience.
In the question shown here,
they're looking to understand a user's surfing experience.
If a user indicates that they're new to surfing,
Ocean Journal can consider
surfacing contextualized messaging
like this "Practice makes perfect" copy
alongside an offer code to help encourage users
to commit to using the app to learn the sport.
Next, consider offering longer-term subscription plans
as part of your subscription offering.
Some of your customers
may quickly understand the value of your service
and may be interested in committing
to a longer term upfront,
especially when the option to do so
is provided at a discounted price.
When presented alongside clear messaging
and an understanding of a service's value proposition,
longer-term SKUs can be an effective way
to provide customers with long-term value.
Across the platform,
we observe that yearly and half-yearly SKUs
are the most popular long-term offerings
amongst customers today.
And remember, you can still provide intro offers
on these longer terms to provide an opportunity
for customers to try out your app for free
or at a reduced price
before the subscription renews at the standard rate.
Here you can see Ocean Journal subscription options.
They have both a yearly and monthly term available
and use the intro offer feature
to provide users with a seven-day free trial.
They offer a 33% annual discount
on their yearly SKU compared to monthly,
so customers who choose yearly
get an entire year of service for the price of eight months.
In turn, this discounted offering
is of benefit to Ocean Journal
as it enables them to engage and retain their customers
for a longer period of time
than they might on a monthly SKU.
Here are some KPIs to keep in mind
when developing these onboarding strategies.
Consider monitoring your introductory offer conversion rate
to understand how many customers convert to paid subscribers
after their introductory offer period,
retention rate can help you understand
the amount of customers that renew their subscriptions,
and tracking subscription activations
can help you evaluate the total number
of new customers subscribing to your service.
Now let's talk about some ways that you can market your app
to drive new-user acquisition.
As discussed earlier, offer codes is a feature
that helps you reach potential customers
through online and offline marketing channels
outside your app.
While you're likely already using
your own marketing channels
to help customers discover your app and drive downloads,
you can now use them
to help drive new subscription starts with offer codes.
You can even customize offers
for each of your different marketing audiences.
For brand-new users,
offer codes gives you the ability
to surface offers before a user even downloads your app
and the redemption flow
will automatically prompt users to install it
if they don't already have the app on their device.
Surfacing acquisition offers outside of your app
is an efficient way to utilize paid media channels
as a means to drive customers
directly into your subscription funnel.
Here you can see how Ocean Journal
is using an offer code advertising
a 50% discount off the first month of service
using the code SUMMERWAVES.
We recommend testing and tailoring
the messaging of your campaign
so that the promotion reaches
and is relevant for your intended audience.
If you'd like to distribute offers
through offline media channels,
consider using offer codes to promote compelling offers
through events or out-of-home,
for example, flyers or outdoor advertising.
And finally, peer-to-peer member referral programs
are another effective way to reach new audiences
and can be executed using offer codes.
These programs allow your current customers
to refer their friends to your subscription service
and invite them to take advantage of special member offers.
Member referral programs
can be very effective user-acquisition drivers
for developers of all sizes
and can generate new leads at a lower cost-per-acquisition.
Let's take a look at how this could work in application.
Here you can see the referrer's journey.
Ocean Journal is prominently promoting
their member referral program on the app's first screen.
Once a customer taps on invite a friend,
they're then prompted
to share a custom offer code via iMessage.
The code and copy is pre-populated by the developer
so all the customer needs to do
is enter their friend's contact information and hit send.
Once a referred user receives the iMessage,
they can tap the link
and be taken directly into the offer code redemption flow
to begin their subscription.
In a little bit I'll walk you through
the complete redemption experience that a customer sees.
When implementing these marketing strategies
that utilize offer codes,
consider evaluating the total number
of offer code redemptions
to see how many users are activating your offer.
Additionally, monitoring offer code conversion rate
will show you how many customers
that begin their subscription with an offer code
convert to fully-paid subscribers.
Note that all the KPIs mentioned in today's presentation
are available for your reference in Sales and Trends.
In this section, I'll cover the best practices
you'll need to consider when implementing
these acquisition strategies into your app.
Let's take a look at one acquisition strategy example
for each of the subscription offers,
as well as what you'd need to consider
when planning and implementing the subscription offers
into your app and server.
When providing introductory offer
for a longer term on subscription plan,
something that you'll need to consider
when merchandising an introductory offer
is that a customer may have previously redeemed
an introductory offer and may not be eligible,
so this copy will need to be dynamically merchandised
to only eligible customers.
This will help you to ensure that the merchandising
is in sync with the App Store payment sheet.
Let's see how you can do that.
With StoreKit 2 you can check
customer's eligibility on device
by using the isEligibleDorIntroOffer Property.
The value for this property will return true
if the customer's eligible
for an introductory offer per subscription group.
Optionally, on server side,
you can use either JWSTransactions,
available with the history API
and check for the field offerType = 1,
or use the latest receipt info array
to check for the field is_trial_period
and is_in_intro_offer_period.
This will help you determine if an intro offer was consumed.
If any of these fields indicate that the customer
has not previously redeemed an introductory offer,
then you can merchandise them the introductory offer.
Now to merchandise offer detail accurately
and verify if your products in App Store Connect
have the introductory offer available, you can do this
with introductoryOffer property for StoreKit 2
and introductoryPrice property for original StoreKit.
If they're available,
the introductory offer details are returned.
StoreKit will prevent you from merchandising an offer
that is not available.
It is important that this is not hard coded
and you should instead leverage StoreKit,
which uses the start and end date
configured in App Store Connect.
To speed up your testing in Sandbox,
and to avoid creating multiple Sandbox Apple IDs,
you can take advantage of the reset eligibility feature
in the Sandbox subscription management page.
This can easily be accessed within your app
if you implement the showManageSubscription method.
Otherwise, you can navigate to your Sandbox Apple ID
in App Store settings.
For more information on testing best practices
for Xcode and Sandbox enhancements, you can check out
the introducing StoreKit Testing and Xcode session
on the Apple Developer website.
Now, let's take a look
at the personalized messaging strategy example.
We're using offer codes as our recommended tool.
This is a great feature for two reasons.
First, it'll provide you with the flexibility
to create multiple offers, and second,
you can leverage your existing SKU and subscription group.
Let's walk through the complete redemption flow.
You can embed the offer code link in claim offer button
once the customer taps on it.
They'll be presented
with the App Store offer redemption sheet
which will represent the configured offer code details
in App Store Connect.
Now, when the user taps on redeem offer,
they will be provided with payment confirmation sheet
and the transaction will be processed
once the customer completes the purchase.
After successfully completing the purchase,
the customer will be presented
with the offer redemption message.
Now, you need to ensure
that your app handles external transactions gracefully
and provides a smooth onboarding experience.
To do this, you can use StoreKit 2 Transaction.updates,
and for original StoreKit,
it would be SKPaymentTransactionObserver.
These are critical to be initiated at app launch
because offer code redemption can occur outside of your app.
It's also important to call finish() transaction
after products or services
have been delivered to the customers.
These unfinished transactions will remain in the queue
to help your app keep track of any purchases
that are yet to be delivered to customers.
This is also critical
in case there was any interruption on device.
You can do this with StoreKit testing on Xcode
and iOS 15.4 and later.
The supported redemption experience
uses the presentCodeRedemptionSheet().
If you're not familiar
with StoreKit testing with Xcode already,
it allows you to test fully offline
without App Store Connect.
You can create and manage your in-app purchase locally
in the StoreKit configuration file,
where you can also set up subscription offers
such as offer codes.
This will allow you to test a successful redemption
and how your app handles new transactions
as a result of an offer code redemption.
On backend systems,
you can easily identify offer code redemptions
using JWSTransactions
which will contain offerType value equals 3
and the offerIdentifier.
The offerIdentifier will contain the value
which you configured in App Store Connect
when setting up the offer code,
and you will also receive
the notification type OFFER_REDEEMED
in near-real time when the customer redeems an offer.
For more information on offer codes,
you can check out our session Subscription Offer Codes
on the Apple Developer website.
Next, on the reporting side,
we have a report for subscription offer code redemptions
and App Store Connect Sales and Trends.
This report contains all offer codes
that have been redeemed, whether they're in effect currently
or will be at the next billing period.
The offer code redemptions are aggregated by territory
and the offer code column includes specific custom codes,
while for one-time codes,
it'll remain blank for customer privacy.
For more information on getting started with subscriptions
or details about our subscription acquisition tools,
introductory offers, or offer codes,
you can visit our auto renewable subscription documentation
on the Apple Developer website
as this contains all resources
and applicable links for your reference in one place.
Thanks for watching.